# Getting started

## Installation

### Required:
- Valid [iOS Push Token](https://help.apple.com/developer-account/#/deva05921840)
- Physical iOS device (Push services doesn't work in Simulator)
- Redlink account with `AppId`, `Token`, `Secret` and `Events Token`
- Application with deployment target equal or above iOS 10.0

### Steps:
1. Add notification service extension
2. Import Redlink framework into your project
3. Configure Xcode project
4. Add required code

### 1. Add notification service extension
- In Xcode select `File` -> `New` -> `Target`
- Select `Notification Service Extension` and press `Next`
- Fill in `Product Name` with `project_nameNotificationServiceExtension` (change `project_name` to name of your project)
- Select `Swift` under `Language` section (Even if your project is written in `Obj-C`)
- Skip Activate scheme alert using `Cancel`
- Remove a class body generated by Xcode, import Redlink framework and use `RedlinkNotificationServiceExtension` as a superClass. Your extension should now look like this:
```swift
import Redlink

class project_nameNotificationServiceExtension: RedlinkNotificationServiceExtension {

} 
```
### 2. Import Redlink into your project
Redlink can be imported by using CocoaPods. If you are not familiar with CocoaPods please check [official guide](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/getting-started.html).

Use the following code in your Podfile. Remember that Redlink Pod must be also added to NotificationServiceExtension target.
```ruby
def shared_pods
  pod 'Redlink', ~> '1.0'
end

target 'project_name' do
   shared_pods
end

target 'project_nameNotificationServiceExtension' do
   shared_pods
end
```
Run `pod install` in command line.

### 3. Configure Xcode project
- Select your project in `Navigator`
- Select `Capabilities` in top toolbar
- Enable `Push Notifications`

### 4. Add RedlinkConfig.plist
- Select in Xcode `File` -> `New` -> `File`
- Under Resource section select `Property List`
- Fill `SaveAs` with name `RedlinkConfig.plist` and select Targets (should be both, `project_name` and `project_nameNotificationServiceExtension`)
- Right click on added `RedlinkConfig.plist` and select `Open As` -> `Source Code`
- Add following code instead of original one
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE plist PUBLIC "-//Apple//DTD PLIST 1.0//EN" "http://www.apple.com/DTDs/PropertyList-1.0.dtd">
<plist version="1.0">
<dict>
    <key>AppId</key>
    <string>your_application_id</string>
    <key>Token</key>
    <string>your_application_token</string>
    <key>Secret</key>
    <string>your_application_secret</string>
    <key>EventsToken</key>
    <string>your_application_events_token</string>
</dict>
</plist>
```
- Replace `your_application_id`, `your_application_token`, `your_application_secret` and `your_application_events_token` with variables obtained from Redlink dashboard.


### 5. Add required code
- Open your `AppDelegate` class
- Import Redlink framework using `import Redlink`
- Add the following code to `didFinishLaunchingWithOptions` method:
```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
  Redlink.configure(using: RedlinkConfiguration.defaultConfiguration())
  Redlink.push.registerForPushNotifications(with: RedlinkPushOptions.default())
			
  return true
}
```

## User Identification

In order to update information about user use RedlinkUserData class. It can be accessed in:
```swift
Redlink.user
```
You can change each of the following data fields:

- email `String`
- phone `String`
- firstName `String`
- lastName `String`
- customParameters `[String: Any]` - where `Any` is `String` or `Int` or `Bool` or `Date`. Any other type of value will be ignored and removed automatically 

Validation: 

- `email` requires valid email format
- `email`, `companyName`, `firstName`, `lastName` can be up to 64 length characters

After changing user data you have to manually save it. To do that call: 
```swift
func saveUser()
```
Full example of updating user data:
```swift
func updateUser() {
    let userData = Redlink.user
    userData.email = "redlink@redlink.com"
    userData.firstName = "Redlink"
    userData.customParameters = [
        "myKey": "myValue"
    ]
    userData.saveUser()
}
```
There is also posibility to remove all stored user data. To do that call:
```swift
Redlink.user.removeUser()
```
## Analytics

In order to track custom user events use `RedlinkAnalytics` class. It can be accessed in:
```swift
Redlink.analytics
```
Each event is identified by `EventName`. In order to track an event use:
```swift
Redlink.analytics.trackEvent(withName: "event_name")
```
You can also provide additional parameters to an event:
```swift
Redlink.analytics.trackEvent(withName: "event_name", parameters: [
    "myKey": "myValue"
])
```
Parameters are of type `[String: Any]` - where `Any` is `String` or `Int` or `Bool` or `Date`. Any other type of value will be ignored and removed automatically.

Validation:

- `EventName` can be up to 64 length characters
- Param `key` can be up to 64 length characters

Besides paramaters you can inject `userData` as Valid JSON String:
```swift
Redlink.analytics.trackEvent(withName: "event_name", userData: "{\"foo\":\"bar\"}")
```

## Deeplinking

Deeplinking works using the official Apple SDK. In order to handle received URL use:
```swift
func application(_ app: UIApplication, open url: URL, options: [UIApplication.OpenURLOptionsKey : Any] = [:]) -> Bool
```
Remember to register your custom URL scheme. You can find more detailed information in [official documentation](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/uikit/core_app/allowing_apps_and_websites_to_link_to_your_content/defining_a_custom_url_scheme_for_your_app)

# Advanced Configuration

## RedlinkPush Custom Configuration

Besides standard configuration, where all the necessary initialization is performed automatically by Redlink framework, it is also possible to manually configure the framework.

When initializing RedlinkPush in `AppDelegate` you can use `RedlinkPushOptions` with default options:
```swift
RedlinkPushOptions.default()
```
Or you can create `RedlinkPushOptions` instance with custom configuration:
```swift
RedlinkPushOptions(authorizationOptions: RedlinkPushAuthorizationOptions, useAutomaticConfiguration: Bool)
```

By default `useAutomaticConfiguration` is set to true which means that all important iOS events related to push notifications such as registration of APNS token, receiving a push notification etc. are automatically handled by Redlink framework (using methods swizzling).

If `useAutomaticConfiguration` is set to `false` then you are required to manually inject all the necessary information to Redlink framework. In such case you have more control over the framework but you need to add some additional code in classes and methods mentioned below.

### 1. AppDelegate

You need to invoke these methods in `Redlink.push`:

```swift
func didRegisterForRemoteNotifications(with deviceToken: Data)
func didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotifications(with error: Error)
```

Required changes example:

```swift
func application(_ application: UIApplication, didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken deviceToken: Data) {
    Redlink.push.didRegisterForRemoteNotifications(with: deviceToken)
}

func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError error: Error) {
    Redlink.push.didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotifications(with: error)
}
```

### 2. UNUserNotificationCenter

You need to invoke these methods in `Redlink.push`:

```swift
func willPresentNotification(_ notification: UNNotification)
func didReceiveNotificationResponse(response: UNNotificationResponse)
```
`willPresentNotification` gives you opportunity to change `UNNotificationPresentationOptions` for current notification. By default Redlink uses `[.alert]` for all notifications. 

Required changes example:

```swift
extension AppDelegate: UNUserNotificationCenterDelegate {
    func userNotificationCenter(_ center: UNUserNotificationCenter, willPresent notification: UNNotification, withCompletionHandler completionHandler: @escaping (UNNotificationPresentationOptions) -> Void) {
        completionHandler(Redlink.push.willPresentNotification(notification, presentationOptions: []))
    }
    
    func userNotificationCenter(_ center: UNUserNotificationCenter, didReceive response: UNNotificationResponse, withCompletionHandler completionHandler: @escaping () -> Void) {
        Redlink.push.didReceiveNotificationResponse(response: response)
    }
}
```

## Additional Information

In order to receive additional information about a notification, it is possible to set a custom delegate (`RedlinkPushDelegate`) in `RedlinkPush`:

```swift
Redlink.push.delegate = self
```

The delegate has 4 optional methods and each of them has `userInfo` parameter with all data available in notification payload.

## Push Notification Actions

Actions can be invoked by interacting on notification (tap action) or notification action buttons. Action will always open application firstly, then perform expected action

Each action has one of the four action types:

`BROWSER` - opens the Safari browser

`WEBVIEW` - opens the `RedlinkWebViewController`, by default it uses the current visible controller from `UIApplication.shared.keyWindow` to perform presentation 

`DEEPLINK` - performs `UIApplication.shared.open` with given URL. 

`NONE` - do nothing (notification disappears)